PALAU STABLECOIN FAQs Feb 17, 2023
1. What is the Palau Stablecoin (PSC)?
A stablecoin is a token that is fixed in value to another asset. The Palau Stablecoin (PSC) is a digital asset fixed in value to the U.S. Dollar. It can be used just like you use fiat currency, but instead of using a wallet, users will hold their PSC using a digital wallet.
2. What is a digital wallet or e- wallet?
An e-Wallet is a secured digital repository with a wallet owner, just like the physical wallet you may now carry in your pocket or handbag.. A digital wallet can hold a stablecoin, digital currency , CBDC or electronic money which can be accessed by the user with their credentials via mobile devices or computers.
3. Why does the Palau Ministry of Finance believe this is needed in Palau?
The Palau Ministry of Finance has sponsored the Stablecoin project to explore ways to make payments easier and more affordable for the Republic of Palau. The goal is to make financial services more widely available through digital access to under-served communities and socio- economic groups. Another goal of the Palau Stablecoin is to reduce service charges for transaction costs like cash transfer, credit card payment fees etc... The implementation of PSC will increase the efficiency of financial services across the Republic of Palau.

4. Is the issuance of the PSC part of a plan to make the country cashless?
No. Cash (the US Dollar) will still be used in the Republic of Palau.

5. Is the Palau Stablecoin a cryptocurrency?
In simple terms, a Stablecoin is a cryptographic token. Stablecoins are usually issued by privately-owned enterprises and have been introduced to take advantage of many of the advantages of cryptocurrencies whilst addressing the high price volatility of cryptocurrencies (i.e., bitcoin, ether, etc.). Leveraging the underlying blockchain technology, they can be easily transferred from one digital wallet to another and may be used to facilitate faster and cheaper cross-border fund transfer and remittances. Stablecoins are also used in Decentralized Finance (DeFi) to leverage opportunities in cross-exchange arbitration, lending and borrowing. A stablecoin is not a cryptocurrency, it is considered more stable than a cryptocurrency because its value is pegged against a fixed asset-security, typically a fiat currency.

6. Where will Palau Stablecoin be accepted?
In the initial pilot, only select retailers and government users will accept the Palau stablecoin. The goal is to test the technology and get feedback from the people to see how they feel about

   A benefit of Stablecoin use in the Republic of Palau is to help reduce energy consumption it
 takes to transport currency, i.e. between stores and banks or even between family members.
 This will help reduce the Republic of Palau's carbon footprint.

it, how useful it is, before we consider a larger deployment
7. Is the system secure?
Yes, the system is highly secure. Blockchain, by its nature, is a highly secure technology. Access to the Republic of Palau Stablecoin uses multi-factored authentication, high level encryption protocols and enhanced KYC/AML standard.
8. How long do we anticipate for the pilot to continue before we transition to deployment?
The pilot is planned for a three-month period where we will test it in a limited scope and collect feedback from the participants.
9. How will using stablecoin differ from using other virtual payment options i.e. PayPal or Google?
Paypal, Venmo and Google are commercial products and as such they charge user fees for some payment services. The Palau Stablecoin is sponsored and managed by the Palau Ministry of Finance, not a commercial vendor. There will be no charges with PSU.
According to research conducted by Forbes, “PayPal and Venmo charge an extra fee (1.75%) for instant transfers when moving money to your external bank account or card account. And both charge for sending money with a credit card: 3% with Venmo and 2.90% on PayPal. PayPal and Venmo also charge fees for business transactions.”
Google Pay and Apple Pay also have fees associated with their use. There is also more privacy protection for transactions using PSU, as third parties can’t access your transactions. With commercial services, data is always vulnerable to hackers and scams.
  10. There's a lot of controversy surrounding bitcoin. How is stablecoin different?
A stablecoin doesn’t have as many market fluctuations as the cryptocurrency market. Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency. Stablecoins differ from other cryptocurrencies because their value is linked to government-issued currency or “stable” assets (which can include cash, bonds, gold, or any number of assets, even other cryptocurrencies.) Stablecoins are generally considered to be less
 volatile in market fluctuations than other forms of cryptocurrency. Bitcoin necessitates cryptocurrency mining, which uses incredible amounts of energy. The Palau Stablecoin is built with Ripple’s technology which doesn’t involve cryptocurrency mining and is therefore energy efficient.
11. Is a Stablecoin safe? Could I lose my money?
 It is safe. The Palau Stablecoin is aligned to and backed by the U.S. dollar. This means that one PSC is backed by a dollar in cash, treasury securities or other safe assets, and thus redeemable on demand.
12. How can a Stablecoin help Palau's economy?
 The stablecoin will provide a universally available value store and payment option for Palau citizens that is not dependent on a commercial institution (bank), does not include banking fees and accelerates the transaction and payments time - think a digital form of physical cash. This can help avoid “late fees” and other bank surcharges. No bank account is necessary for citizens

 to use the Palau stablecoin. This will facilitate greater financial inclusion for those who have been unable to open a bank account. With a Stablecoin, money transfer can happen without the sender and the recipient being in the same physical location.
13. How are the government employees being selected and what if there are more than 200 volunteers?
It will be limited to 200 people and the selection process will be first on a voluntary basis, then with random selection if less than 200 people. It will help determine if Palau government wants to roll it out, hence the success criteria draft document we created.






The Republic of Palau Partners with Ripple to Pilot a US Dollar-Backed Stablecoin on the XRP Ledger

In an exciting development, Ripple’s stablecoin project with the Republic of Palau has entered a Phase One pilot. The partnership between the Republic of Palau and Ripple marks a significant milestone in the realm of stablecoins. The collaboration has resulted in the launch of the Palau Stablecoin (PSC), backed by the U.S. Dollar, issued on the secure and environmentally friendly XRP Ledger (XRPL).

The Palau Stablecoin pilot program involves government employees who have volunteered to use PSC with select local merchants in Palau. Local merchants Surrangel and Sons, The Penthouse Hotel and King’s Minute Mart are accepting the Palau Stablecoin for payments during the pilot.



The Palau Money Bird is the digital image on the Palau Stablecoin.  

“This is a prototype digital currency going through pilot testing that has the potential to revolutionize the way goods and services are paid for in Palau” says Jay Hunter Anson, FinTech  Project Manager for the Palau Ministry of Finance. ”The Palau Stablecoin offers a “fee-free” secure, transparent, and convenient option for payments that is more efficient than other online payment services.”

Strengthening Foundations with Ripple’s CBDC Technology

As part of the controlled stablecoin pilot, Palau will leverage the Ripple CBDC Platform, an end-to-end solution designed for central banks to issue their own central bank digital currency. With the technical resources provided, Palau will be able to manage and customize the entire life cycle of the stablecoin, as well as transactions, distribution and redemption. 

“By digitizing our currency, we hope to mobilize our economy and government processes to accelerate financial transitions and empower our citizens,” expressed President of the Republic of Palau, S. Whipps Jr.

He further emphasized Palau’s advantage as a smaller country, allowing for innovative and nimble initiatives like the stablecoin. The President expressed trust in Ripple’s expertise in central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) and blockchain technology, along with the environmentally conscious XRP Ledger, to assist in creating Palau’s national digital currency and promote financial success among its citizens.


Benefits for Palau Citizens and Merchants

The Palau Stablecoin (PSC) offers numerous advantages to its citizens, merchants, and the government. Financial inclusion will be greatly enhanced, and overall transaction fees will be reduced for citizens. The PSC will reduce currency transaction  costs imposed by banks, significantly accelerating  up transactions settlement times and cross-border payments, while providing a secure and effective payment  tool for commercial activities in Palau. 

Phase One of the Palau Stablecoin Pilot

During the initial phase of the pilot program, Palau government employees receive a bonus allotment of PSC, which they can use during the pilot at participating retailers. 

To instill confidence among Palau citizens, specific success criteria have been identified for Phase One of the controlled pilot: 

The Palau Ministry of Finance (MO) has the ability to securely and reliably mint, distribute, and process inbound PSC redemptions, maintaining full control over the total circulation on a real time 24/7 basis. 
Palau government employees are able to use PSC for purchases at select retailers, facilitating seamless point-of-sale transactions. 
Palau retailers are able to safely and securely receive and verify payments made with PSC, with the option to convert the received stablecoin into funds in their local bank accounts. 
Next Steps

Following the success of Phase One, additional phases of the Palau stablecoin pilot program are planned, aiming to expand the adoption and benefits of the PSC to a wider audience. According to Jay Anson, “The launch of the Palau Stablecoin is a major step forward for Palau in its efforts to become a leader in the blockchain industry and develop its digital economy. The pilot project will be evaluated after two months with the decision on whether to expand it further.”

With the introduction of the U.S. Dollar-backed Palau Stablecoin on the XRP Ledger, Palau is poised to embrace digital currency and leverage Ripple’s expertise in blockchain technology to benefit its citizens.


 


Penthouse
Globus Trading Company
Surangel & Sons Co.
"King's Apartments & Space Rental; 
King's Minute Mart and Fast Food; 
Ingrid's Bakeshop and Catering"
































